# AI-Generated vs Real Image Classifier
### This project focuses on building a machine learning model to classify images as either AI-generated or real. The goal was to develop a robust classifier that could handle a wide range of image types, using techniques like data augmentation, preprocessing, and artificial neural network (ANN) modeling.

## Dataset Source
```
Dataset is taken from :

AI Generated Images vs Real Images
By CASH BOWMAN

Web scraped images: AI and Real.
```
<a href="https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/cashbowman/ai-generated-images-vs-real-images/data">DATASET LINK</a>

## Problem
The rapid development of AI, especially for generative models such as Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) and diffusion models, has led to significant advances in the creation of highly realistic images. These AI-generated images have become indistinguishable from real photos in many cases, raising questions about their authenticity and potential impact on various sectors such as media, advertising and security.

## Goal
In this application, the built model will be used to distinguish between images generated by artificial intelligence algorithms (such as GANs or other generative models) and images taken from the real world (real photos).

This model will allow users to identify whether an image is the result of AI technology or comes from the real world, using image processing and machine learning techniques.

## Justification
This issue is particularly relevant as rapid advances in AI technology, particularly in the creation of highly realistic images, make it difficult to distinguish between real and AI-generated images. Technologies such as Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) have been able to generate images that closely resemble real images, which are often used for unethical purposes, such as the spread of disinformation, deepfakes or visual deception.

<a href="https://www.bravenewplanet.org/episodes/deepfakes-and-the-future-truth">JUSTIFICATION 1</a><br><br>
<a href="https://daidac.thecjid.org/the-ethics-of-ai-generated-media-content-when-does-manipulation-go-too-far/">JUSTIFICATION 2</a>

## Techniques Used
Data Augmentation: Applied transformations to the original dataset to artificially increase the size and diversity of the training data.
Data Preprocessing: Included resizing, normalization, and other preprocessing steps to ensure better model convergence.
Modeling: An artificial neural network (ANN) was used for classification, with an emphasis on optimizing performance using the Stochastic Gradient Descent (SGD) optimizer and incorporating dropout for regularization.

## Model Performance
After testing 20 different models, the final model with the best performance was an artificial neural network (ANN) with the SGD optimizer and dropout layers. It achieved an accuracy of 67% on the validation set. While the model performed reasonably well in most cases, it struggled to identify highly realistic AI-generated images, which remain a challenge in this task.

## Deployment
Model deployed on Hugging face. Deployment file can be found in deployment folder.

<a href="https://huggingface.co/spaces/eldzilla/AIvsRealImage">HuggingFace Link</a>
